# Sarcasm-Detection-using-Python
Main goal of this project is to predict whether a news headline is sarcastic or not. Sometimes news headlines are so complex to identify whether it is sarcastic or not.On that time this model will help to
detect the sarcasm. Again detection of sarcasm is of great importance and beneficial to many NLP applications, such
as sentiment analysis, opinion mining and advertising.

<br><br>

<b>Implementation: </b>
After importing the data set, first task was to preprocess the data set using NLTK. Here, the stop words were removed
from the data set then all the verb that were not in their root form, taken to their root form. Having this step done, the
words were projected by integer or floating points and the data set was then prepared for fitting data to the required
models.<br>
Initially Naive Bayes and Decision Tree were used. Even-though they showed accuracy more than 70 percent but
they were very lackey at recall. To overcome this issue, Sequential classifier is used with 10 epochs.<br><br>
<b>Data Collection: </b>
The dataset generated by collecting news from two major websites. the Onion website that provided the sarcastic
version of various events happened around the globe and HuffPost provided the non-sarcastic version of the same
news so as to maintain the balance in the dataset.<br><br>
<b>Data Processing: </b>
The data came somewhat preprocessed as there was no missing value but some adjustments had to be made to make
the data compatible with the classifiers using NLTK. Removing stopwords and tokenizing.<br><br>
<b>Model: </b>
To accomplish the goal, so far, we have used a machine learning model called naive_bayes from sklearn library. We
have also used MultinomialNB from the same library. From the dataset, 80 percent of the data is used to train the
model, and the rest 20 percent is for testing the model. Python is used for coding.
